there's no improvement that can be made
that there's too many humans on the
planet um young people who are choosing
not to have kids because they're worried
about what the future might hold this a
this a very Bleak Vision so it's it's
interesting to me that that somehow that
because it has that spiritual component
is so attractive to young people I just
I just find be self-defeating well
they're afraid but the thing is it's not
just that they're afraid you know
because it also appeals to their
irresponsibility so what happens to
people is if you truncate their time
Horizon so let's say you put people in a
situation where they know that they're
going to die in battle in 2
weeks well they're going to party like
it there's no tomorrow because there's
no tomorrow and so if you tell people
that there's no tomorrow well that does
terrify them but it offer it also offers
them an excuse for irresponsible
Hedonism and so that's a very toxic
combination and the left has definitely
capitalized on that now the problem with
that is that it leads to Despair and so
and and not and not very long assuming
you're not dead it leads to despair
right assuming that the apocalypse
doesn't come so it's not a good
long-term solution I was writing this
morning about the end of The Exodus
story and so it's detailed out in
numbers actually and what happens is
that the Israelites are now on the edge
of the promised land so now they're
looking to actually occupy the future
and Moses sends scouts out to check out
the land and the scouts come back and
make two reports and one report is
unbelievably pessimistic it's like
there's nothing but Giants in the land
of Canaan they're going to crush us
militarily we don't have a hope the
future is dismal everything is terrible
you're a corrupt leader you led us
through the desert only for your own
power and we should go back to the
tyranny of Egypt and that's one group of
reporters and the other group is Caleb
and Joshua and they say well there's
some troubles ahead but we can manage
them and we're going to be delivered
right well what happens is that God
brings a plague in and Strikes down the
faithless
scouts and Joshua who's the Scout with
courage and Faith leads the Israelites
into the promised land and there's an
archetypical significance to that story
you know truly which is that leaders who
Envision the future are called upon to
presume that we can manage to off offer
that Vision to young people it you in
faith and courage because that's what
you have to confront the future because
you don't have the facts at hand and you
never will and you say something like
like you do when you get married and the
the idea is we can do this that's what
you say when you have kids we can do
this and it's the it's the business of
leaders to say that especially to young
people that we've got this if we put our
heads together if we abide by the proper
moral principles if we make the right
sacrifices if we're responsible we can
make the future the promised land and so
conservatives have that at
their at
their it's within their grasp if they
want to take it that Vision because as
you said the the vision of the left is
unbelievably toxic it's very Bleak I I
believe you've just called Alberta the
promised land because that's exactly how
I look at what it is we're trying to do
in Alberta and it's working I mean I I
couldn't have been more astonished at
what happened postco when we uh said
we're getting back to normal and we're
going to invest in our economy and we
want people to come here to help us
build this place it it has been more
successful than I ever could have
imagined we had over 200,000 people come
to Alberta in 2023 and they're
continuing to come and it's young
families and my view and I I just said
this I was on a radio program today
because you can look at the problems you
can say oh yes we've seen now a surge in
housing prices and we've got issues of
crowded classrooms and we've more people
who need Healthcare and of course
whenever you end up with uh uh with
people who F find themselves displaced
and don't get a job you do have a
problem with homelessness and addiction
but my view is I would rather take the
challenges of a growing economy where
people are wanting to solve the problems
then the reverse which is managing the
decline which is where Alberta was at
for the last 10 years and I'm just
seeing just aspirationally because
people want to come here and want to be
part of what it is that we're providing
and it's very simple the the ones that
I've met at various festivals over the
summer is you know what I can I can
afford a home here uh my my dollars go
for further because the the taxes are
lower I'm I'm able to to raise my family
and have the you know have a
conversation about whether or not one of
us wants to stay at home um th th those
are the the very Basics that people are
are looking for in life and so I think
we're trying to provide that here and
and and I think and I think that people
are responding to it well if the
question is is Alberta the promised land
the answer is do people who are in the
desert want to go there and the answer
to that is yes because you have this net
influx and so people are making that
decision all by themselves is that
whatever you're offering is obviously
worth pursuing in comparison to what
they have and that is the Eternal
definition of the promised land and you
do see that by the proclivity of people
to vote with their feet and so and it is
the case that Alberta is one of those
places that
I think Beck in property to young people
for exactly the reasons that you just
described not least because of the this
the still intact preponderance of an
essentially small C or classic liberal
ethos that that characterizes the the
not not only the the population from the
bottom up right and so it is yeah well
and it's it's interesting to me because
we actually now I think have more
conservative Premier in the country than
we have other other parties because
there's myself and then there's Scott
mowen Saskatchewan Doug Ford in in
Ontario and then we've got conservative
leaders in in Atlantic Canada as well so
there there is something that has
happened at the the subnational level uh
and those are all the services and and
that's we are the ones who have the
primary responsibility for creating the
economic environment and the the social
support environment that's going to to
to be able to support people and so I I
think it's telling that not withstanding
the fact that we've had a dysfunction
federal government that is operating on
an entirely different set of values that
I think is destructive for the country
in some ways at the subnational level we
have conservative leaders who I think
have been able to counteract it to a to
a large measure and maybe that'll
ultimately spill over federally maybe
people will have finally had enough I
think surprised to see the folks of
Toronto have finally had enough that I
think came as a surprise to everybody
but that's definitely kind of
miracle if even the folks in downtown
Toronto who have not voted anything
other than than liberals since 1993 have
said this vision is not one I I want to
buy into that that's that's a very
important turning point I think for our
country we need it
[Music]